ARROW-14760: [Doc] Steps in making your first PR - PR life cycle (#11837)
apache/arrow: docs/source/developers/guide/step_by_step/pr_and_github.rst

.. _pr_and_github:

******************************
Lifecycle of a Pull Request 🙀 
******************************

:ref:`As mentioned before<set-up>`, Arrow project uses git for
version control and a workflow based on Pull Requests. That means
that you contribute the changes to the code by creating a branch
in Git, make changes to the code, push the changes to you ``origin``
which is your fork of the Arrow repository on GitHub and then you
create a **Pull Request** against the official Arrow repository
which is saved in your set up as ``upstream``.

> You should have git set up by now, have your source code,

Reviewer: Also "repository" in full ;-)

have successfully built Arrow and have an JIRA issue to work on.

**Before making changes to the code, you should create a new
branch in Git.**

1. Update/sync the code from your ``upstream``
   in the master branch. Run it in the shell from ``arrow`` directory.

   .. code-block:: shell

      $ git checkout master
      $ git fetch upstream
      $ git pull --ff-only upstream master

2. Create a new branch

   .. code-block:: shell

>       $ git checkout -b <branch-name>

Reviewer 2: this could also be `git switch --create <branch-name>` (I don't know to what extent people already use those new commands)

Now you can make changes to the code. To see the changes
made in the library use this two commands:

.. code-block:: shell

   $ git status # to see what files are changed
   $ git diff # to see code change per file

Creating a Pull Request 
=======================

Once you are satisfied with the changes, run the :ref:`tests <testing>`
and linters and then go ahead and commit the changes.

> 3. Add and commit the changes

Reviewer 2: Just wondering, do those numbers work? (it might be that sphinx automatically renumbers them and starts counting at 1 because this is a new list. But if that's the case, there should also be a way to turn that off)

Author: It works. If I would use `#.` it would restart at 1.

   .. code-block:: shell
         
      $ git add <filenames>
      $ git commit -m '<message>'

   Or you can add and commit in one step, if all the files changed
   are to be committed
   
   .. code-block:: shell      

      $ git commit -a -m '<message>'

4. Then push your work to your Arrow fork

   .. code-block:: shell  

      $ git push origin <branch-name>

.. note::

   Your work is now still under your watchful eye so no problem if you
   see any error you would like to correct. You can make an additional
   commit to correct. Also Git has lots of ways to
   amend, delete, revise, etc. See https://git-scm.com/docs for more
   information.

   Until you make the Pull Request, nothing is visible on the Arrow
   repository and you are free to experiment.

If all is set, you can make the Pull Request!

5. Go to ``https://github.com/YOU/arrow`` where you will see a box with
   the name of the branch that you pushed and next to it a green button

>    **Compare & Pull Request**. Clicking on it you should add a title and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   **Compare & Pull Request**. After clicking on it, you should add a title and
```

.. _pr_and_github:

******************************
Lifecycle of a Pull Request 🙀 
******************************

:ref:`As mentioned before<set-up>`, the Arrow project uses git for
version control and a workflow based on Pull Requests. That means
that you contribute the changes to the code by creating a branch

> in Git, make changes to the code, push the changes to your ``origin``

Reviewer 3: Not sure which one is the typo, but you have "git" and "Git" here.

which is your fork of the Arrow repository on GitHub and then you
create a **Pull Request** against the official Arrow repository
which is saved in your set up as ``upstream``.

You should have git set up by now, have cloned the repository,
have successfully built Arrow and have an JIRA issue to work on.

**Before making changes to the code, you should create a new
branch in Git.**

1. Update/sync the code from your ``upstream``
   in the master branch. Run it in the shell from ``arrow`` directory.

   .. code:: console

>       $ git checkout master

Author: @jorisvandenbossche here for example, `$` gets copy-pasted also if I try it in the `index.html` view of the guide.

Reviewer 2: Which version of sphinx are you using locally to build the docs?

Reviewer 2: (I also don't know if it matters whether you use `.. code::` vs `.. code-block::`, not directly sure what's the difference between both)

Author: sphinx-build 2.4.4

I tried `.. code::` and `.. code-block::` and was the same. I am quite sure it's just my setup.

Reviewer 2: That's a very old version. I suppose that's the reason for this not working. I think you need sphinx >= 4

Author: We should update [requirements.txt](https://github.com/apache/arrow/blob/master/docs/requirements.txt). Why is there a set version anyways?

Author: I deleted the pin for Sphinx in `requirements.txt` and built the docs with 4.3.1 version successfully. Only warnings for some compute functions persist. I will add the change as a PR to the [ARROW-8340](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ARROW-8340).

      $ git fetch upstream

>       $ git pull --ff-only upstream master

Reviewer 3: How about adding comments explaining what each of these rows are doing?

2. Create a new branch

   .. code:: console

      $ git checkout -b <branch-name>

   or (does the same thing)
   
   .. code:: console

      $ git switch --create <branch-name>

Now you can make changes to the code. To see the changes
made in the library use this two commands:

.. code:: console

   $ git status # to see what files are changed
   $ git diff # to see code change per file

Creating a Pull Request 
=======================

Once you are satisfied with the changes, run the :ref:`tests <testing>`
and linters and then go ahead and commit the changes.

3. Add and commit the changes

   .. code:: console
         
      $ git add <filenames>
      $ git commit -m '<message>'

>    Or you can add and commit in one step, if all the files changed

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Alternatively, you can add and commit in one step, if all the files changed
```

   are to be committed
   
   .. code:: console      

      $ git commit -a -m '<message>'

4. Then push your work to your Arrow fork

   .. code:: console  

      $ git push origin <branch-name>

.. note::

>    Your work is now still under your watchful eye so no problem if you
>    see any error you would like to correct. You can make an additional
>    commit to correct. Also Git has lots of ways to
>    amend, delete, revise, etc. See https://git-scm.com/docs for more
>    information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Your work is now still under your watchful eye so it's not a problem if you
   see any errors you would like to correct. You can make an additional
   commit to correct, and Git has lots of ways to
   amend, delete, revise, etc. See https://git-scm.com/docs for more
   information.
```

.. _pr_and_github:

******************************
Lifecycle of a Pull Request 🙀 
******************************

:ref:`As mentioned before<set-up>`, the Arrow project uses Git for
version control and a workflow based on Pull Requests. That means
that you contribute the changes to the code by creating a branch
in Git, make changes to the code, push the changes to your ``origin``
which is your fork of the Arrow repository on GitHub and then you
create a **Pull Request** against the official Arrow repository
which is saved in your set up as ``upstream``.

You should have Git set up by now, have cloned the repository,

> have successfully built Arrow and have an JIRA issue to work on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
have successfully built Arrow and have a JIRA issue to work on.
```

**Before making changes to the code, you should create a new
branch in Git.**

1. Update/sync the code from your ``upstream``

>    in the master branch. Run it in the shell from ``arrow`` directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   in the master branch. Run it in the shell from the ``arrow`` directory.
```

   .. code:: console

      $ git checkout master # select the main Arrow branch
      $ git fetch upstream # check for changes in upstream/master
      $ git pull --ff-only upstream master # save the changes from upstream/master

   Note: ``--ff-only`` applies changes only if they can be fast-forwarded

>    without creating new commits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   without conficts or creating merge commits.
```

2. Create a new branch

   .. code:: console

      $ git checkout -b <branch-name>

   or (does the same thing)
   
   .. code:: console

      $ git switch --create <branch-name>

Now you can make changes to the code. To see the changes
made in the library use this two commands:

.. code:: console

   $ git status # to see what files are changed
   $ git diff # to see code change per file

Creating a Pull Request 
=======================

Once you are satisfied with the changes, run the :ref:`tests <testing>`
and linters and then go ahead and commit the changes.

3. Add and commit the changes

   .. code:: console
         
      $ git add <filenames>

>       $ git commit -m '<message>'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      $ git commit -m "<message>"
```

(I generally find double quotes a bit safer in case you would use ' as apostrophe for some reason in the message)

   Alternatively, you can add and commit in one step, if all the files changed
   are to be committed
   
   .. code:: console      

>       $ git commit -a -m '<message>'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      $ git commit -a -m "<message>"
```

>       $ git commit -a -m '<message>'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      $ git commit -am '<message>'
```

Or is that more confusing? (I do that personally)

Author: I could change and maybe add a comment about the meaning of it.

or a developer that you communicated with via JIRA comments, mailing
list or GitHub.

To put a **mention** in GitHub insert @ in the comment and select the
username from the list.

Commenting on a Pull Request
----------------------------

When a Pull Request is open in the repository you and other developers
can comment on the proposed solution.

To create a general comment navigate to the **Conversation** tab of
you Pull Request and start writing in the comment box at the bottom of
the page.

You can also comment on a section of the file to point out something
specific from your code. To do this navigate to **Files changed** tab and
select a line you want to insert the comment to. Hovering over the beginning
of the line you will see a **blue plus icon**. You can click on it or drag
it to select multiple lines and then click the icon to insert the comment.

Resolve conversation
--------------------

You can resolve a conversion in a Pull Request review by clicking
**Resolve conversation** in the **Files changed** tab. This way the
conversation will be collapsed and marked as resolved which will make it
easier for you to organize what is done and what still needs to be addressed.

> After getting a review

Reviewer 2: maybe "Updating your Pull Request"?

----------------------

The procedure after getting reviews is similar to creating the initial Pull Request.
You need to update your code locally, make a commit, update the branch to sync
it with upstream (or origin if there were commits from other developers or if you 

> committed suggestions from the GitHub) and push your code to origin. It will

Reviewer 2: I am wondering if we want to spell out the commands for this?

Author: I would agree, it would be nice to have everything in one place and remove duplicated info from the contributing page.

Reviewer 2: The contributing page lists how to rebase your PR, but not how to fetch commits from your remote fork in case you accepted suggestions. That's maybe something that could be added here, and how to consolidate it with contributing.rst can be something to do later?

Author: Yes, that's right. The pull from origin is only suggested in the contributing.rst. I will make it explicit and add it here!

> automatically be updated in you Pull Request also.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
automatically be updated in your Pull Request as well.
```

.. _pr_and_github:

******************************
Lifecycle of a Pull Request 🙀 
******************************

:ref:`As mentioned before<set-up>`, the Arrow project uses Git for
version control and a workflow based on Pull Requests. That means
that you contribute the changes to the code by creating a branch
in Git, make changes to the code, push the changes to your ``origin``
which is your fork of the Arrow repository on GitHub and then you
create a **Pull Request** against the official Arrow repository
which is saved in your set up as ``upstream``.

You should have Git set up by now, have cloned the repository,
have successfully built Arrow and have a JIRA issue to work on.

**Before making changes to the code, you should create a new
branch in Git.**

1. Update/sync the code from your ``upstream``
   in the master branch. Run it in the shell from the ``arrow`` directory.

   .. code:: console

      $ git checkout master # select the main Arrow branch
      $ git fetch upstream # check for changes in upstream/master

>       $ git pull --ff-only upstream master # save the changes from upstream/master

Author: Source: https://arrow.apache.org/docs/developers/contributing.html#local-git-conventions

>       $ git pull --ff-only upstream master # save the changes from upstream/master

Author: I can change it to only `git pull` in the guide and also in the `contributing.rst`? @jorisvandenbossche what do you think?

   Note: ``--ff-only`` applies changes only if they can be fast-forwarded
   without conflicts or creating merge commits.

2. Create a new branch

   .. code:: console

      $ git checkout -b <branch-name>

   or (does the same thing)
   
   .. code:: console

      $ git switch --create <branch-name>

Now you can make changes to the code. To see the changes
made in the library use this two commands:

.. code:: console

   $ git status # to see what files are changed
   $ git diff # to see code change per file

> Creating a pull request 🙀

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Creating a pull request 
```

   
   .. code:: console      

      $ git commit -am "<message>"

4. Then push your work to your Arrow fork

   .. code:: console

      $ git push origin <branch-name>

.. note::

   Your work is now still under your watchful eye so it's not a problem
   if you see any errors you would like to correct. You can make an
   additional commit to correct, and Git has lots of ways to
   amend, delete, revise, etc. See https://git-scm.com/docs for more
   information.

   Until you make the Pull Request, nothing is visible on the Arrow
   repository and you are free to experiment.

If all is set, you can make the Pull Request!

5. Go to ``https://github.com/<your username>/arrow`` where you will see a box with
   the name of the branch that you pushed and next to it a green button
   **Compare & Pull Request**. After clicking on it, you should add a
   title and description of the Pull Request. Underneath you can check
   once again the changes you have made.

   .. seealso::
      
      Get more details on naming the Pull Request in Arrow repository
      and other additional information :ref:`pull_request_and_review`
      section.

> Reviews and merge of the Pull Request

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Reviews and merge of the pull request
```

=====================================

> When the Pull Request is submitted it waits to get reviewed. One of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the pull request is submitted it waits to get reviewed. One of
```

> great things about Open Source is your work gets lots of feedback and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
great things about open source is that your work can get lots of feedback and
```

To create a general comment navigate to the **Conversation** tab of
you Pull Request and start writing in the comment box at the bottom of
the page.

You can also comment on a section of the file to point out something
specific from your code. To do this navigate to **Files changed** tab and
select a line you want to insert the comment to. Hovering over the beginning
of the line you will see a **blue plus icon**. You can click on it or drag
it to select multiple lines and then click the icon to insert the comment.

Resolve conversation
--------------------

You can resolve a conversion in a Pull Request review by clicking
**Resolve conversation** in the **Files changed** tab. This way the
conversation will be collapsed and marked as resolved which will make it
easier for you to organize what is done and what still needs to be addressed.

Updating your Pull Request
--------------------------

The procedure after getting reviews is similar to creating the initial Pull Request.
You need to update your code locally, make a commit, update the branch to sync
it with upstream and push your code to origin. It will automatically be updated
in your Pull Request as well.

> The steps of the updating the Pull Request would then be as follows:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The steps for updating the Pull Request would then be as follows:
```

   amend, delete, revise, etc. See https://git-scm.com/docs for more
   information.

   Until you make the pull request, nothing is visible on the Arrow
   repository and you are free to experiment.

If all is set, you can make the pull request!

5. Go to ``https://github.com/<your username>/arrow`` where you will see a box with
   the name of the branch that you pushed and next to it a green button
   **Compare & pull request**. After clicking on it, you should add a
   title and description of the pull request. Underneath you can check
   once again the changes you have made.

   .. seealso::
      
      Get more details on naming the pull request in Arrow repository
      and other additional information :ref:`pull_request_and_review`
      section.

Reviews and merge of the pull request
=====================================

When the pull request is submitted it waits to get reviewed. One of
<<<<<<< HEAD
great things about Open Source is your work gets lots of feedback and
=======
great things about open source is that your work can get lots of feedback and

> >>>>>>> 2fd43586537d10ebdd65131dd3d0495c1f2b280d

Reviewer 3: Lines 132-136 have artifacts of resolving a merge conflict left in them

Author: Oops!
